Git Commands:
1.	Move to Directory: cd …
2.	Create directory: mkdir directoryName
3.	Create file: cat >fileName
4.	Enter data: $touch filename
5.	List of files: $ls
6.	File and txt file comparison: $ls-lrt
7.	From working to staging area: $git add filename
8.	“ with multiple files: $git add filename1 filename2 …
9.	Status check: $git status
10.	To remove files from staging area: $git reset filename
11.	From staging area to local repo: $git commit -m “comments”
12.	List of git commits: $git log
13.	“ in one line: $git log –oneline



 
Docker Commands:
1.	List of docker images: >>docker image ls OR  >>docker images
2.	Download image from dockerhub: >>docker pull image-name
3.	Upload image into dockerhub: >>docker push image-name
4.	To look for an image in dockerhub: >>docker search image-name
5.	To delete an image: >>docker rmi image-name
6.	To Create an image from Container: >>docker commit container-name/container-id img-name
7.	To Create an image from dockerfile: >>docker build -t img-name.
8.	List of running containers: >>docker container ls
9.	List of stopped and running containers: >>docker ps -a
10.	To start a container: >>docker start container-name/id
11.	To stop a container: >>docker stop container-name/id
12.	To restart a container after 10s: >>docker restart -t 10 container-name/id
13.	To remove a stopped container: >>docker rm container-name/id
14.	To remove a running container: >>docker rm -f container-name/id
15.	To stop all running containers: >>docker stop $(docker ps -aq)
16.	To remove all stopped containers: >>docker rm $(docker ps -aq)
17.	To remove all running containers: >>docker rm -f $(docker ps -aq)
18.	To see the logs generated by a running container: >>docker logs container-name/id
19.	To see the ports of a running container: >>docker port container-name/id
20.	To get detailed information about a container: >>docker inspect container-name/id
21.	Creating a docker container: >>docker run image-name
22.	To see the list of docker networking: >>docker network ls
23.	To inspect a network: >>docker network inspect network-d/name
24.	To create a network: >>docker network create network-name
25.	To delete a network: >>docker network rm network-name
 

